{
    "title": "Daily News Summаry [18.12.2020]",
    "text": "The situation remains tense in the Armenian South-East Border with Azerbaijan\nThe residents of Syunik Province blocked the Goris-Kapan highway demanding security insurance from the authorities. Yesterday, the municipality of Kapan reported that the Armenian Ministry of Defence ordered the serviceman to leave the advantageous positions in Kapan. According to Tert.am, the deputy mayor of Goris said they will continue the protests until the Armenian Prime Minister resigns.\nArmenian Minister of Defence Vagharshak Harutyunyan confirmed to Armenpress that Russian border guards will be deployed in some parts of Syunik for security reasons.\nLater today the Prime Minister announced that he will visit the Province on Monday to meet the residents and municipalities.\nRisk of Terrorism Spread Raised with Nagorno Karabakh War, Putin Says\nDuring the CIS Summit today, Putin said that “Russia has taken mediation efforts to stop the bloodshed in Nagorno Karabakh, reached a complete ceasefire, and began the process of stabilization,” Ria Novosti reports. “The Russian peacekeepers deployed along the line of contact are doing everything to prevent a new escalation of the situation,” said Putin.\n“Unfortunately, the military clashes led to many human losses, escalated the already difficult situation in Transcaucasia, and increased the risk of spread of terrorism,” Putin said. \nDuring the 44-day Nagorno Karabakh war, thousands of mercenaries from Syria were recruited by Turkey and sent to fight for the Azerbaijani forces. Many of the mercenaries were identified based on a considerable amount of evidence, including being captured by the Artsakh Defence Army.\nEU-Armenia Partnership Council Discussed Nagorno Karabakh \nThe 3rd Partnership Council meeting between the European Union and Armenia was held in Brussels today. The Partnership Council reviewed the implementation of the EU-Armenia Comprehensive and Enhanced Partnership Agreement (CEPA), as the EU Delegation to Armenia informs. The EU and Armenia also discussed the situation in and around Nagorno-Karabakh following the cessation of hostilities on 10 November 2020, the EU's role in supporting recovery and reconciliation, as well as regional issues. “The EU stands ready to assume a role in supporting and shaping a durable settlement to the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, in close complementarity with the Minsk Group Co-Chairs,” said High Representative, Josep Borrell who chaired the Council. The Partnership Council also addressed the challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.\nBelgian House of Representatives Condemns the Hostilities by Azerbaijan\nThe Belgian House of Representatives has passed a resolution on the Nagorno Karabakh conflict, condemning the resumption of hostilities by Azerbaijan on September 27, 2020, the Armenian National Committee of Belgium reports.\nThe resolution calls on the immediate withdrawal of the Azerbaijani armed forces from the Nagorno Karabakh region, identifying those responsible for war crimes, bringing them to justice, and negotiating a peaceful agreement respecting the right to self-determination of the Nagorno-Karabakh people. The resolution also condemned the Azerbaijani deliberate attacks against civilians and the use of cluster munitions and phosphorus bombs\nThe Parliament also condemns the harmful role that Turkey has played in this war, demands that it “cease military intervention in this conflict” and “refrain from destabilizing roles in the region.”\nToday in Armenian Politics \nArmenian President Armen Sargsyan continues consultations with political forces. As the presidential office informs, today the President had a discussion about the situation in the country with the head of Prosperous Armenia Party (BHK) Gagik Tsarukyan. The second largest group in the Armenian parliament joined “Homeland Salvation Movement”, a coalition of originally 16 political parties, that have been demonstrating against the government since the Nagorno-Karabakh ceasefire of November 10. Earlier this month, the President also met with Vazgen Manukyan, the joint candidate for interim Prime Minister nominated by the Movement. \nThe Prime Minister expressed his will to stay in power as long as the people support him. Yesterday Vice president of Armenian Parliament Alen Simonyan said that early elections should be held at the earliest possible time “provided the technical and physical conditions are available,” as Armenpress reported. He emphasised that the decision will be made only by the people.\n"
}