{
    "title": "Daily News Summary [24.12.2020]",
    "text": "New Border Checkpoints to Emerge in the Armenian Southeastern Syunik Region\nArmenian PM Nikol Pashinyan said at a weekly cabinet meeting that new border checkpoints are being mapped out in the country’s southern Syunik region that borders Azerbaijan to ensure security, Hetq.am reports. Pashinyan added that there are borderline issues related to two villages in the region that can lead to painful outcomes for the residents. Pashinyan assured that the residents will receive full compensation in case their interests will be compromised.  \nThe situation in Syunik started escalating recently after the Armenian Defense Ministry was reported to order handing over the Armenian advantageous positions to Azerbaijan dangerously exposing Armenian border communities to the Azerbaijani forces due to their close distance.  Later the Minister of Defence announced that the security of Armenian southeastern borders will be guaranteed by Russian troops. Protests started in Syunik where the residents blocked the highway and prevented PM Pashinyan from entering the region.\nCitizens Detained Over Anti-Government Rallies \nHundreds of protesters gathered outside the government building trying to disrupt the weekly cabinet meeting. While the cabinet meeting was in progress, protesters outside the government chanted \"Nikol, you are traitor!\" \"Armenia without Nikol\", Panorama.am reports. 69 citizens have been detained by police, Armenpress.am writes. Citizens have also blocked one of the main avenues in the capital demanding Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan to resign.\nVazgen Manukyan, the oppositional candidate for the Prime Minister’s post called on to participate in the rally. He said that people rose up two years ago hoping to have a better life, now they are ashamed to go to the streets. The “Homeland Salvation Movement”, a coalition of 17 parties nominated Vazgen Sargsyan for Prime Minister of an interim government. The Movement demands current Prime Minister Pashinyan to resign over what they call was a mishandling of the recent six-week war in Nagorno-Karabakh unleashed by Azerbaijan. Moscow-brokered peace truce ended with thousands of human deaths as well as large territorial and cultural heritage losses for Armenia.\nDemands for Pashinsyan’s resignation have been supported by Armenia’s President Armen Sargsyan, the Armenian Church, distinguished public figures, and academia representatives in Armenia and the Diaspora. \nPrime Minister Pashinyan recently announced that he has no intention to resign.\nOther News from Armenia\n\nA criminal case has been initiated against the former RA Minister of Culture and Youth Hasmik Poghosyan, who was in office from 2006 to 2016. The former minister is accused of abuse of official powers and money laundering.\nRA Human Rights Defender Arman Tatoyan is in Moscow on a working visit. The main goal of the visit is the early return of the Armenian prisoners, captured by the Azerbaijani side. The details of the visit and meetings will not be revealed. The Artsakh authorities have found the bodies of eight more servicemen in the regions under the Azerbaijani control amid ongoing search operations. The Artsakh State Service of Emergency Situations informed that so far, the number of remains of the war victims that have been found is 1069, Armenpress.am reports.\nRussian Rosatom Service company said today that the Armenian Nuclear Power Plant and the Russian TVEL nuclear fuel cycle company signed contract documents for the supply of Russian nuclear fuel in 2021, ARKA.am reports. Rosatom is contracted by the Armenian government to handle the modernization of the Armenian nuclear power plant.\nThe Chamber of Deputies of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg unanimously accepted the mediation condemning the actions of Azerbaijan, Turkey and jihadists against Artsakh, Tigran Balayan, Ambassador of the Republic of Armenia to the Netherlands and Luxembourg informs.\n“The status of Nagorno Karabakh requires additional negotiations. Of course, we anticipate more efforts from the OSCE, France, the US and other states, involved in the Nagorno Karabakh settlement process,” Valentina Matvienko, Chair of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation said today.\nPrime Minister Nikol Pashinyan met with President Armen Sarkissian. The interlocutors discussed the situation in the country, security and protection of Armenia's border communities, restoration of normal life in Artsakh and support measures provided by the Armenian government.\n\n"
}